First up, we have system event logs.
By the end of this section,
you will understand the different categories and types of event logs,
be able to interpret the information found in event logs,
and you'll learn strategies for transporting
those logs for long-term storage and aggregation.
Where do system events fit in our three component model of security?
Primarily in detection and response.
What are event logs?
Logs are records of events that happened in your computer,
either by person or by running process.
They help you track what happened and troubleshoot problems.
The Windows event log contains logs from the operating system and applications.
We're going to focus on three primary categories of Windows event logs.
They are: system, security, and application.
Window system event logs are messages generated by the Windows operating system.
If you recall in lesson 2,
we learned about services.
When their status changes, that's noted here.
Also from lesson 2,
Windows update information will be posted here.
There are many more types of events logged here,
the above are just a small sample.
Windows security event logs contain information related to
login attempts that are successful and failed.
Elevated privilege events such as
when security permissions are modified and other audited events
such as group policy changes and more.
Windows application event logs contain
information on the applications installed on the local machine.
When an application starts and stops,
useful information if an application crashes,
and application specific events such as Adobe or Microsoft Office events.
Now that we're familiar with the three primary categories of event logs,
let's look at the types of events we might find it in them.
An error represents a significant problem,
such as a loss of functionality due to a service
failing to start or a hardware issues such as a failing disk.
Warning is an event that could indicate a pending problem.
For instance, low disk space on your primary hard drive.
The most common event is information,
it is simply an event that took place successfully.
A success audit is when an audited event occurred successfully.
For example, when you successfully log in to your machine.
Lastly, a failure audit,
you guessed it, is the opposite.
It's when an audited event did not succeed.
When you type in your password wrong or if
you click on a "Folder" you don't have permissions to.
Let's take a deep dive into a real event from our lab machine.
As you can see,
this event is an audit failure,
which you just learned is when an incorrect password is entered
or an attempt to view a file or folder without proper permissions is made.
Next, you can see that this failed login came from the administrator account.
The failure reason is unknown name or bad password.
Next, we have the IP address where the attempt originated.
This is very valuable information and that is not my IP address.
Finally, we see this is event ID 4625,
which is specifically for failed logins.
As you recall from defense in depth,
monitoring is a key part of your security program.
Logging and potentially alerting on this event ID is a perfect use case.
As you might imagine,
there are many more events that should be monitored.
The exact ones are different for every organization,
but I've listed several here.
Event 4648 is a login attempt with specific credentials.
This usually implies a batch job or someone performing a Runas.
This could be significant as malicious actors
often download scripts and batch files to deploy their attack.
Event 4719 is generated when the system's audit policy has been changed.
An adversary could potentially use this to cover their tracks.
Similarly, event 1102 is generated when an audit log has been cleared.
Be particularly aware if you see this event near the time of 4719 as
it could indicate that an attacker has deleted
all events and change how events are logged.
Event 4720 is for a new user account.
It is good security housekeeping to keep an eye on this.
Here are a few more to consider.
Event 4725 is when an account is disabled.
This could be an adversary has gained access and
is attempting to disable key sysadmin accounts.
Event 4740 is for a locked out user account.
This could be an indication that someone was
attempting to log in via brute force or dictionary attack.
There are several events for Windows Firewall and scheduled tasks.
Both can be modified by adversaries to establish persistence.
There are many more.
Remember, every organization is different.
Take the time to learn your environment.
By the way, there are links in the classroom where you
can go to look up more of these events and see what they are.